freezing is a really great way of
preserving vegetables and fruit so if
you've got an allotment or if you fancy
going to a fruit farm it's a really good
technique to learn and I'm going to show
you how to freeze raspberries to start
off with now what you want to do with
3.z is remember you don't want all the
fruit and vege to clump together so what
you want to do is put a sheet of paper
down on a baking tray like this and then
just arrange the fruit so that they're
not touching just like this so pop them
all out and that holds the same for
larger fruit and vege as well as smaller
ones like this pop them all over like so
and then what you want to do about an
hour or two hours before you do your
freezing
you should try and put your freezer on
to its highest setting and you want to
do that because if you pop fruit in
it'll lose its nutritional values less
quickly and it will also make the
freezing quicker which means the ice
crystals won't be as big so here's some
I've done earlier you can see they've
got that icy thing these are frozen
through now and what you can do if you
don't want sheets of things in your
freezer pop them into a freezer bag and
then that's a really nice and easy way
of storing them so pop that back in
always importantly remember to label
them frozen things we generally keep for
about three to six months in the freezer
after that they won't go bad or spoil
but they just start losing their flavor
a bit and they often tend to go a bit
mushy
that's berries and berries and soft
things can be a bit problematic to
freeze I think the raspberries cherries
things like that freeze quite well but
what happens is that they lose their
texture a little bit and that's because
as the ice expands it makes them a
little bit mushy so it's probably best
to put them into smoothies and use them
in cooking and things like that it's
even better to use a harder vegetables
things like broccoli works really well
carrots can freeze quite well or broad
beans which I've got here and also grow
very well on allotments pop them out of
the pods and then what you want to do is
a pan of boiling water pop those in like
that and just boil them for about three
minutes these should work
something's a bit bigger like broccoli
perhaps you might cook it for a couple
of minutes more and just when they're
softened you want to take them out then
I've got a bowl of really cold water and
again that's to stop them carrying on
cooking so you don't actually want to
cook them just blanch them you actually
don't always have to boil things things
like peppers you can actually grill in
them freeze them that works quite nicely
as well there you go and then what you
do with that just let them cool off and
then drain them and then all you have to
do is open freeze them as I did the
raspberries pop them in a bag pop them
in the freezer and there you have it how
to freeze fruit and vegetables